<h1> Immigrant Wiki </h1>

----

= Canada =

[https://www.canada.ca/en/immigration-refugees-citizenship/services/immigrate-canada.html Ofiicial Website]

== Express Entry (skilled workers) ==

[https://www.canada.ca/en/immigration-refugees-citizenship/services/immigrate-canada/express-entry/works.html Homepage]

=== Canadian Experience Class ===

[https://www.canada.ca/en/immigration-refugees-citizenship/services/immigrate-canada/express-entry/eligibility/canadian-experience-class.html Homepage]

=== Federal Skilled Trades Program ===

[https://www.canada.ca/en/immigration-refugees-citizenship/services/immigrate-canada/express-entry/eligibility/skilled-trades.html Homepage]

=== Federal Skilled Worker Program ===

* [https://www.canada.ca/en/immigration-refugees-citizenship/services/immigrate-canada/express-entry/eligibility/federal-skilled-workers.html Homepage]
** [https://www.canada.ca/en/immigration-refugees-citizenship/services/immigrate-canada/express-entry/documents.html get your documents ready]
** [https://www.canada.ca/en/immigration-refugees-citizenship/services/immigrate-canada/express-entry/documents.html submit your profile]

'''Minimum requirements'''

To be eligible, you must meet all the minimum requirements for:

* skilled work experience
* language ability
* education

If you meet all the minimum requirements, we’ll assess your application based on additional [https://www.canada.ca/en/immigration-refugees-citizenship/services/immigrate-canada/express-entry/eligibility/federal-skilled-workers.html#selection selection factors].

==== Skilled work experience ====

Skilled work experience means that you’ve worked in 1 of these National Occupational Classification (NOC) TEER categories:

* TEER 0
* TEER 1
* TEER 2
* TEER 3

You must show that while working in your primary occupation, you performed:

* the actions in the lead statement of the occupational description in the NOC
* most of the main duties listed

<blockquote>
Your “primary occupation” means the job you:

have experience in
* want to base your immigration application on, if you’re invited to apply
* Your primary occupation may not be your most recent work experience. If you don’t have the minimum work experience in the primary NOC you choose, you won’t be found eligible.
</blockquote>

Your skilled work experience must

* be in the same type of job (have the same NOC) as your primary occupation
* have been obtained within the last 10 years, in Canada or abroad
* be paid work (you must have been paid wages or earned commission—volunteer work or unpaid internships don’t count)
* be at least '''1 year of continuous work''' or 1,560 hours total (30 hours per week). You can meet this in a few different ways:
** '''full time at 1 job''': 30 hours/week for 12 months = 1 year full time (1,560 hours)
** '''equal amount in part-time work''': for example 15 hours/week for 24 months = 1 year full time (1,560 hours) - You can work as many part-time jobs as you need to meet this requirement.
** '''full time at more than 1 job''': 30 hours/week for 12 months at more than 1 job = 1 year full time (1,560 hours)

==== Part-time work experience ====

Your skilled work experience must be paid work including paid wages or earned commission. We don’t count volunteer work or unpaid internships.

For part-time work, you can work more or less than 15 hours/week as long as it adds up to 1,560 hours. You can work more than 1 part-time job to get the hours you need to apply.

We '''don’t''' count any hours you work above 30 hours/week.

==== Student work experience ====

Work experience gained while you were studying may count towards your '''minimum requirements''' if the work:

* was paid by wages or commissions
* was continuous (no gaps in employment), and
* meets all the other [https://www.canada.ca/en/immigration-refugees-citizenship/services/immigrate-canada/express-entry/eligibility/federal-skilled-workers.html#minimum requirements of the Program]

==== Language ability ====

[https://www.canada.ca/en/immigration-refugees-citizenship/services/immigrate-canada/express-entry/documents/language-requirements/language-testing.html approved language tests]

Your language tests are valid for '''2 years''' after the date of the test result. They must be valid on the day you apply for permanent residence.

==== Education ====

If you have foreign education, you must have

* a completed [https://www.canada.ca/en/services/immigration-citizenship/helpcentre/glossary.html#educational_credential educational credential] and
* an [https://www.canada.ca/en/immigration-refugees-citizenship/services/immigrate-canada/express-entry/documents/education-assessed.html Educational Credential Assessment] '''for immigration purposes''' that
** is from a [https://www.canada.ca/en/immigration-refugees-citizenship/services/immigrate-canada/express-entry/documents/education-assessed/how.html designated organization] and
** shows your education is equal to a completed certificate, diploma or degree from a Canadian secondary institution (high school) or post-secondary institution

== Work in Canada ==

[https://www.canada.ca/en/immigration-refugees-citizenship/services/work-canada.html Homepage]

=== Look for jobs in Canada ===

[https://www.canada.ca/en/immigration-refugees-citizenship/services/new-immigrants/prepare-life-canada/prepare-work/look-jobs.html Homepage]

*[https://ircc.canada.ca/english/newcomers/services/index.asp immigrant-serving organizations], who offer:
** résumé writing workshops
** job search training sessions
** other services to help you find work
<s>[https://www.canada.ca/en/immigration-refugees-citizenship/services/new-immigrants/new-life-canada/pre-arrival-services.html pre-arrival services]  </s>
('''They must approved your permanent residence application''')


*[https://www.jobbank.gc.ca/findajob/newcomers Job Bank], which offers free [https://www.jobbank.gc.ca/analyse-tendances/recherche-professions;jsessionid=E3E454D3C08933A20B65954E08B5B0F0.jobsearch74 occupational and career information] about working in Canada, such as:
** jobs
** wages
** main duties
** employment trends
** educational requirements

* Service Canada, which has important information about [https://www.canada.ca/en/services/jobs/opportunities.html searching and applying for jobs]

* your [https://www.canada.ca/en/immigration-refugees-citizenship/services/new-immigrants/prepare-life-canada/provinces-territories.html province’s or territory’s website for newcomers]

=== National Occupation Classification (NOC) ===

[https://noc.esdc.gc.ca/Home/Welcome/4d655901c5a8499d8af705bb2a3aee03?GoCTemplateCulture=en-CA NOC]

[https://www.canada.ca/en/immigration-refugees-citizenship/services/immigrate-canada/express-entry/eligibility/find-national-occupation-code.html Find your National Occupation Classification (NOC)]

{|
! TEER category !!	Nature of education, training and experience required and complexity of responsibilities
|- 
| 0	||
* Management responsibilities
|- 
| 1 ||	
* Completion of a university degree (bachelor's, master's, or doctorate); or
* Previous experience and expertise in subject matter knowledge from a related occupation found in TEER category 2 (when applicable).
|- 
| 2	||
* Completion of a post-secondary education program of two to three years at community college, institute of technology, or CÉGEP; or
* Completion of an apprenticeship training program of two to five years; or
* Occupations with supervisory or significant safety (e.g. police officers and firefighters) responsibilities; or
* Several years of experience in a related occupation from TEER category 3 (when applicable).
|- 
| 3 ||
* Completion of a post-secondary education program of less than two years at community college, institute of technology or CÉGEP; or
* Completion of an apprenticeship training program of less than two years; or
* More than six months of on-the-job training, training courses or specific work experience with some secondary school education; or
* Several years of experience in a related occupation from TEER category 4 (when applicable).
|- 
| 4	||
* Completion of secondary school; or
* Several weeks of on-the-job training with some secondary school education; or
* Experience in a related occupation from TEER category 5 (when applicable).
|- 
| 5	||
* Short work demonstration and no formal educational requirements
|}

=== Social Insurance Number (SIN) ===

[https://www.canada.ca/en/employment-social-development/services/sin/apply.html SIN]

[https://www.canada.ca/en/employment-social-development/services/sin/before-applying.html#Translation_requirements Translation requirements]

== Family sponsorship ==

[https://www.canada.ca/en/immigration-refugees-citizenship/services/immigrate-canada/family-sponsorship.html Homepage]

* [https://www.canada.ca/en/immigration-refugees-citizenship/services/immigrate-canada/family-sponsorship/sponsor-parents-grandparents.html Sponsor your parents and grandparents]
* [https://www.canada.ca/en/immigration-refugees-citizenship/services/immigrate-canada/family-sponsorship/other-relatives.html Sponsor your relatives]

= United States =

[https://www.uscis.gov/ Ofiicial Website]

== Permanent Workers ==

[https://www.uscis.gov/working-in-the-united-states/permanent-workers Homepage]

If you live outside the United States and want to work here, you generally must apply for a '''visa''' from the U.S. Department of State (DOS), unless a visa is not required for people from your country of nationality. You may visit [https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/us-visas/tourism-visit/travel-without-a-visa.html DOS’ Travel Without a Visa page] for more information.

{|
! Preferences !! General Description !! Labor Certification Required?
|-
| [https://www.uscis.gov/working-in-the-united-states/permanent-workers/employment-based-immigration-first-preference-eb-1 EB-1]
|| This preference is reserved for persons of extraordinary ability in the sciences, arts, education, business, or athletics; outstanding professors or researchers; and multinational executives and managers.
|| No
|-
| [https://www.uscis.gov/working-in-the-united-states/permanent-workers/employment-based-immigration-second-preference-eb-2 EB-2]
|| This preference is reserved for persons who are members of the professions holding advanced degrees or for persons with exceptional ability in the arts, sciences, or business.
|| Yes, unless applicant can obtain a national interest waiver (Labor Certification)
|-
| [https://www.uscis.gov/working-in-the-united-states/permanent-workers/employment-based-immigration-third-preference-eb-3 EB-3]
|| This preference is reserved for professionals, skilled workers, and other workers. (See [https://www.uscis.gov/working-in-the-united-states/permanent-workers/employment-based-immigration-third-preference-eb-3 Third Preference EB-3] page for further definition of these job classifications.)
|| Yes
|-
| [https://www.uscis.gov/working-in-the-united-states/permanent-workers/employment-based-immigration-fourth-preference-eb-4 EB-4]
|| This preference is reserved for “special immigrants,” which includes certain religious workers, employees of U.S. foreign service posts, retired employees of international organizations, noncitizen minors who are wards of courts in the United States, and other classes of noncitizens.
|| No
|-
|| [https://www.uscis.gov/working-in-the-united-states/permanent-workers/eb-5-immigrant-investor-program EB-5]
||This preference is reserved for business investors who invest $1.8 million or $900,000 (if the investment is made in a targeted employment area) in a new commercial enterprise that employs at least 10 full-time U.S. workers.
|| No
|}

== STEM Employment Pathways ==

[https://www.uscis.gov/working-in-the-united-states/options-for-noncitizen-stem-professionals-to-work-in-the-united-states Homepage]

=== Immigrant (Permanent) Pathways ===

{|
! Pathway (i.e., employment-based immigrant visa classification) !! Required education, experience, or skills !! Job offer and/or labor certification required?
|-
|
[https://www.uscis.gov/working-in-the-united-states/permanent-workers/employment-based-immigration-first-preference-eb-1 EB-1A]
<br>
Employment-Based First Preference – Extraordinary ability
||
Sustained national or international acclaim in a specific field.
||
No job offer or labor certification required, but individuals must show how they will work in their area of extraordinary ability in the United States.
|-
|
[https://www.uscis.gov/working-in-the-united-states/permanent-workers/employment-based-immigration-first-preference-eb-1 EB-1B]
<br>
Employment-Based First Preference – Outstanding professors and researchers
||
International recognition as outstanding in a specific academic area.	
||
Job offer required.
<br>
No labor certification required.
|-
|
[https://www.uscis.gov/working-in-the-united-states/permanent-workers/employment-based-immigration-first-preference-eb-1 EB-1C]
<br>
Employment-Based First Preference – Multinational executives and managers
||
One year of employment abroad with a parent, branch, affiliate, or subsidiary of the U.S. petitioning company in a primarily managerial or executive capacity.	
||
Job offer must be for employment in a primarily managerial or executive capacity with a qualifying U.S. employer that has been doing business for at least one year.
<br>
No labor certification required.
|-
|
[https://www.uscis.gov/working-in-the-united-states/permanent-workers/employment-based-immigration-second-preference-eb-2 EB-2] (without national interest waiver)
<br>
Employment-Based Second Preference – Exceptional ability or advanced degree professional
||
Exceptional ability: a level of expertise significantly above that ordinarily encountered.
<br>
Advanced degree professional: the job requires, and you possess, a degree above a bachelor’s (or a bachelor’s followed by at least five years of progressive experience).
||
Job offer required.
<br>
Labor certification generally required.
|-
|
[https://www.uscis.gov/working-in-the-united-states/permanent-workers/employment-based-immigration-second-preference-eb-2 EB-2 with National Interest Waiver (NIW)]
<br>
Employment-Based Second Preference – Exceptional ability or advanced degree professional with national interest waiver of job offer and, thus, the labor certification
||
Exceptional ability or advanced degree as described above plus:
<br>
The proposed endeavor has both substantial merit and national importance.
<br>
You are well positioned to advance the proposed endeavor.
<br>
On balance, it would be beneficial to the United States to waive the requirements of a job offer, and thus the labor certification.
||
No job offer required.
<br>
No labor certification required.
|-
|
[https://www.uscis.gov/working-in-the-united-states/permanent-workers/employment-based-immigration-third-preference-eb-3 EB-3]
<br>
Employment-Based Third Preference – Skilled workers, professionals, or other workers
||
Skilled worker: the job requires, and you possess, a minimum of 2 years’ training or experience.
<br>
Professional: the job requires, and you possess, at least a U.S. bachelor’s degree (or a foreign equivalent degree).
<br>
Other worker: you are capable of performing a job requiring less than 2 years’ training or experience.
||
Job offer required.
<br>
Labor certification generally required.
|}

[https://www.uscis.gov/sites/default/files/document/web-content/STEM%20Visa%20Guide%20-%20Landing%20Page%20New%20Doc_CHI.pdf Options for Noncitizen STEM Professionals to Work in the United States (PDF Chinese Version)]

= Norway =

[https://www.udi.no/en/ Ofiicial Website]

== Fee ==

[https://www.udi.no/en/word-definitions/fees list of fees]

== Work immigration ==

[https://www.udi.no/en/want-to-apply/work-immigration/?c=chn Page (The applicant is a citizen of : China.)]

=== Skilled workers ===

[https://www.udi.no/en/want-to-apply/work-immigration/skilled-workers/?c=chn Page (The applicant is a citizen of : China.)]

[https://www.udi.no/en/want-to-apply/work-immigration/skilled-workers/?c=chn#link-816 Skilled worker with an employer in Norway]

= New Zealand =

[https://www.immigration.govt.nz/ Ofiicial Website]

== Visa ==

[https://www.immigration.govt.nz/new-zealand-visas/visa-lists/all-resident-visas Visas that may allow you to live in NZ]

[https://www.immigration.govt.nz/new-zealand-visas/visas/visa/permanent-resident-visa Permanent Resident Visa]

= Sweden =

[https://www.swedenabroad.se/en/about-sweden-non-swedish-citizens/china/going-to-sweden/ Ofiicial Website]

== Residence Permit ==

[https://www.swedenabroad.se/en/embassies/china-shanghai/visas-and-residence-permits/application-residence-permit/ Application residence permit]

[https://www.migrationsverket.se/English/Private-individuals.html Swedish Migration Agency's website]

= Denmark =

[https://www.nyidanmark.dk/en-GB Ofiicial Website]

= Ireland =

[https://www.irishimmigration.ie/ Ofiicial Website]

= Australia =

[https://immi.homeaffairs.gov.au/ Ofiicial Website]

= Netherlands =

[https://www.government.nl/topics/immigration-to-the-netherlands Ofiicial Website]

= United Kingdom =

[https://www.gov.uk/browse/visas-immigration Ofiicial Website]

= Germany =

[https://www.germany-visa.org/immigration/ Ofiicial Website]

= France =

[https://france-visas.gouv.fr/en/your-arrival-in-france Ofiicial Website]

= Portugal =

[https://vistos.mne.gov.pt/en/national-visas/general-information/type-of-visa Ofiicial Website]

= Switzerland =

[https://www.sem.admin.ch/sem/en/home.html Ofiicial Website]

= Iceland =

[https://www.government.is/diplomatic-missions/embassy-of-iceland-in-ottawa/work-and-live-in-iceland/ Ofiicial Website]

= Luxembourg =

[https://mae.gouvernement.lu/en/services-aux-citoyens/visa-immigration.html Ofiicial Website]

= Belgium =

[https://dofi.ibz.be/en Ofiicial Website]

= Japan =

[https://www.mofa.go.jp/j_info/visit/visa/index.html Ofiicial Website]

= South Korea =

[https://www.immigration.go.kr/immigration_eng/index.do Ofiicial Website]

= Taiwan =

[https://www.immigration.gov.tw/5385/7244/7250/7257/ Ofiicial Website]

= Singapore =

[https://www.ica.gov.sg/ Ofiicial Website]

----

= EU =

[https://commission.europa.eu/live-work-travel-eu_en Live, Work and Travel]

